Scrape response:

Artificial Intelligence

Skip to main content

Toggle section links

Study Global Visit Research News About Alumni Local Staff Students

Schools & departments MyEd

Search:

Search

Postgraduate study




                Degree finder

Home Study Postgraduate study

Degree finder                        



                        Subject: Computing and Informatics

Artificial Intelligence MSc

Contact us

Degree finder Subject: Computing and Informatics Artificial Intelligence MSc

Artificial Intelligence

Artificial Intelligence

MSc

Awards: MSc Study modes: Full-time, Part-time

Funding opportunities

Programme website: Artificial Intelligence

I absolutely loved my time during the AI MSc. Edinburgh city is vibrant and inspiring, and the University offers so much beyond academics - networking events, research opportunities, and constant support.

I even secured a job by April, before finishing in August.

The best part was the people—now my friends, flat mates, and colleagues - who are the smartest, most ambitious people I know. They've gone on to amazing jobs, PhDs, and start-ups, and they’ve inspired me to start my own company too!

Maria Luque Anguita              Artificial Intelligence MSc 2022

Proposed new programme We would like to hear your views on a potential new postgraduate opportunity in AI for Business. Take survey

Applying

Expand all Contract all

Programme description

This MSc is taught at the UK's longest-established academic centre studying artificial intelligence, which remains one of the best in the world. Many of your courses are taught by internationally-known researchers spanning a wide range of areas in artificial intelligence that draw on research in related fields such as:

neuroscience cognitive science linguistics mathematics

We aim to give you the fundamental knowledge and practical skills needed to design, build, and apply AI systems in your chosen area of specialisation. Reputation The University of Edinburgh consistently ranks top 30 globally for Computer Science. The Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021 ranked our School 1st in the UK for research power in Computer Science and Informatics. This means you will learn from experts at the forefront of their fields, undertaking cutting-edge research in a wide range of areas. Environment You will be part of a large, vibrant department with around 1,750 students across undergraduate, master’s and research programmes and 150 academic staff. You will study in the heart of Edinburgh city centre, regularly voted as one of the most desirable places to live in the world, and one of the UK’s fastest-growing tech hubs.

Programme structure

You will follow two taught semesters of lectures, tutorials, project work and written assignments (September to May). During this time you will also learn research methods (such as literature reviews and project planning) to prepare for your final project and dissertation, which is completed during the summer. Courses Around half your taught course credits must be chosen from areas of artificial intelligence. Course offerings follow the main research areas of our staff, with multiple course options available in natural language processing, machine learning, robotics, and related areas. Example courses offered recently in artificial intelligence include:

Accelerated Natural Language Processing Image and Vision Computing Automatic Speech Recognition Machine Learning & Pattern Recognition Natural Language Understanding, Generation, and Machine Translation Probabilistic Modelling and Reasoning Reinforcement Learning Advanced Robotics Machine Learning Theory Case Studies in AI Ethics

For your remaining courses, you may choose further options from artificial intelligence or from a wide range of courses offered in other areas of Informatics, including:

computer systems theoretical computer science software engineering social and biological computation

We provide guidance to help you choose a set of courses that work well together, giving you specialised expertise in your chosen area. Please note this degree has flexible course options. Students are only admitted onto the degree if they will have a viable set of options, but not all courses on offer are appropriate for all admitted students. The School of Informatics offers a wide selection of courses, but not all optional courses are guaranteed to run every year, and a few high-demand courses may limit enrolment to students on the most relevant degree(s). Project The project is an essential component of the master's degree. It is a substantial piece of full-time independent work supervised by a member of teaching staff. You will have prepared for your research project in semester 2. The project is undertaken over the summer months, culminating in the submission of a dissertation. Students typically choose from a wide range of projects proposed by our academic staff. Students who are sponsored by or have close contact with an industrial company may wish to undertake a project which relates to that company’s activities. Students who self-propose topics (including those in conjunction with industry) must find an interested supervisor from the School of Informatics. Part-time study Those studying the two-year part-time option take half of the taught credits in their first year, and the other half in the second year, followed by full-time work on the final project in the summer at the end of the second year. There is also a three-year part-time option which spreads the final project over a third year. Both options require flexibility during the semesters: our large course offering means that taught courses have contact times at irregular hours throughout the whole week. Delivery This is an in-person programme, and we expect you to be in Edinburgh. Courses are taught on campus, both full-time and part-time, during teaching hours (currently 9am-7pm) Monday – Friday. To succeed, you will need to maintain a consistent level of study each week. Students are expected to stay in Edinburgh for the duration of their degree programme. This includes during the writing of the dissertation until the submission deadline. Find out more about compulsory and optional courses We link to the latest information available. Please note that this may be for a previous academic year and should be considered indicative. Find out more about compulsory and optional coursesWe link to the latest information available. Please note that this may be for a previous academic year and should be considered indicative.AwardTitleDurationStudy mode MScArtificial Intelligence1 YearFull-timeProgramme structure 2024/25MScArtificial Intelligence2 YearsPart-timeProgramme structure 2024/25MScArtificial Intelligence3 YearsPart-timeProgramme structure 2024/25

Career opportunities

Our students are well prepared for both employment and academic research. The emphasis is on practical techniques for the design and construction of intelligent systems, preparing graduates to work in a variety of specialisms, from fraud detection software to recommendation systems and assistive robots. Career Outcomes Job titles of our recent graduates include:

VC Analytics Data Engineer Quantitative Developer
Machine Learning Engineer Software Engineering Manager Dangerous Capabilities Research Engineer

Recruiting companies for recent graduates include Google, OpenAI and EPSRC. Many of our MSc graduates go into research, teaching and further study. Recent examples include:

Research Associate NLP/ML Research Fellow/Scientist Research Engineer in Artificial Intelligence
Researcher and Machine Learning Engineer NLP Tutor and Demonstrator

University destinations for further study (typically PhD) include Oxford, Cambridge and St Andrews, as well as the University of Edinburgh. Start-ups and spinouts The University of Edinburgh has a long track record of start up companies and innovations, including key players in the industry set up by Informatics master’s alumni:

FanDuel, a unicorn company Robotical RISE Nutrition Carbon Glance Predictiva

Edinburgh Innovations – start-up opportunities We have fantastic resources through the University’s commercialisation service, Edinburgh Innovations, to help you successfully nurture your entrepreneurial ideas and launch your own enterprise.

Edinburgh Innovations

Career development through societies Our active student societies, such as CompSoc and Hoppers, offer skills building, networking and industry events. Recent speakers include:

Spotify Amazon Meta

Find out more about CompSoc and Hoppers:

CompSoc Hoppers

Careers Service Our award-winning Careers Service plays an essential part in your wider student experience at the University, providing:

tailored advice individual guidance and personal assistance internships and networking opportunities (with employers from local organisations to top multinationals) events such as the annual Careers in Tech and Data Fair, giving you opportunities to meet recruiters actively looking to recruit our students access to the experience of our worldwide alumni network

We invest in your future beyond the end of your degree. Studying at the University of Edinburgh will lay the foundations for your future success, whatever shape that takes.

Careers Service Flagship Events – Careers Service

Hear from our Alumni

Alumni Perspectives

Our facilities

You will be based in the School of Informatics’ main teaching building, Appleton Tower. The building provides purpose-built facilities and dedicated learning and teaching spaces, all located in the University's Central Area. IT facilities include computer labs with more than 250 high-spec machines and comprehensive support provided by dedicated computing staff. In the project phase you will also have access to Appleton Tower's floor 9 (accessed only by master's students during this time) which has computing labs, private study spaces and beautiful panoramic views across Edinburgh. If you take courses from other Schools, these might be delivered in the Nucleus building, on the University's Kings Buildings Campus. You will have access to the University's facilities across all University sites. For example:

libraries study spaces (some of which are open 24 hours) computing facilities social spaces leisure facilities

Student Adviser All students have a named Student Adviser who you can visit in Appleton Tower. The team provide general support and guidance to students who are encountering difficulties with any aspect of University life. Where appropriate they will liaise with other University Support Services, so they are able to provide the best possible support and advice for you. They can also help with a wide range of administrative and practical issues to do with your degree programme.

My Student Advisor

Take a virtual tour Take a closer look at all our facilities on the University’s Virtual Visit site:

Virtual Visit

Video: Artificial Intelligence MSc Introduction

Entry requirements

These entry requirements are for the 2025/26 academic year and requirements for future academic years may differ. Entry requirements for the 2026/27 academic year will be published on 1 Oct 2025. A UK 2:1 honours degree, or its international equivalent, in informatics, artificial intelligence, cognitive science, computer science, electrical engineering, linguistics, mathematics, philosophy, physics or psychology. Entry to this programme is competitive. A typical offer will normally require a UK first class honours degree. Competence in programming is essential. During your degree you must have completed a programming course in at least one of the following: C/C++, Java, Python, R, Matlab, Haskell, ML. During your degree you must have completed the equivalent of 60 SCQF credits or 30 ECTS credits of mathematics that have typically covered the following subjects/topics: calculus (differentiation and integration), linear algebra (vectors and multi-dimensional matrices), discrete mathematics and mathematical reasoning (e.g. induction and reasoning, graph theoretic models, proofs), and probability (concepts in discrete and continuous probabilities, Markov chains etc.) Prior knowledge of probability concepts is especially important for this degree. Students from China This degree is Band B.

Postgraduate entry requirements for students from China

International qualifications

Check whether your international qualifications meet our general entry requirements:




                Entry requirements by country

English language requirements Regardless of your nationality or country of residence, you must demonstrate a level of English language competency which will enable you to succeed in your studies. English language tests We accept the following English language qualifications at the grades specified:

IELTS Academic: total 7.0 with at least 6.5 in each component. We do not accept IELTS One Skill Retake to meet our English language requirements. TOEFL-iBT (including Home Edition): total 100 with at least 23 in each component. We do not accept TOEFL MyBest Score to meet our English language requirements. C1 Advanced (CAE) / C2 Proficiency (CPE): total 185 with at least 176 in each component. Trinity ISE: ISE III with passes in all four components. PTE Academic: total 73 with at least 65 in each component. We do not accept PTE Academic Online. Oxford ELLT: 8 overall with at least 7 in each component.

Your English language qualification must be no more than three and a half years old from the start date of the programme you are applying to study, unless you are using IELTS, TOEFL, Trinity ISE or PTE, in which case it must be no more than two years old. Degrees taught and assessed in English We also accept an undergraduate or postgraduate degree that has been taught and assessed in English in a majority English speaking country, as defined by UK Visas and Immigration:

UKVI list of majority English speaking countries

We also accept a degree that has been taught and assessed in English from a university on our list of approved universities in non-majority English speaking countries (non-MESC).

Approved universities in non-MESC

If you are not a national of a majority English speaking country, then your degree must be no more than five years old at the beginning of your programme of study.

Find out more about our language requirements:




                English language requirements

Fees and costs

Deposit If you receive an offer of admission, either unconditional or conditional, you will be asked to pay a tuition fee deposit to secure your place on the programme.

£1,500 (this contributes towards your tuition fees)

Find out more about tuition fee deposits:

Tuition fee deposits

Tuition fees AwardTitleDurationStudy mode MScArtificial Intelligence1 YearFull-timeTuition feesMScArtificial Intelligence2 YearsPart-timeTuition feesMScArtificial Intelligence3 YearsPart-timeTuition fees

Scholarships and funding

Funding for postgraduate study is different to undergraduate study, and many students need to combine funding sources to pay for their studies. Most students use a combination of the following funding to pay their tuition fees and living costs:

borrowing money

taking out a loan family support

personal savings income from work employer sponsorship scholarships

Explore sources of funding for postgraduate study Scholarships and student funding You can find funding opportunities, tuition fees and costs of living for prospective UK and international postgraduate students on the University website.

Postgraduate scholarships and student funding

You are also encouraged to undertake your own research into the range of potential scholarships and other funding outside the University for which you may be eligible.

Search for scholarships and funding opportunities:




                    Search for funding

Further information

Admissions Contact (lines open Mon-Fri 10am-4pm) Phone: +44 (0)131 650 5737 Contact: College of Science & Engineering Admissions Enquiries

Programme Contact Contact: futurestudents@ed.ac.uk

School of Informatics11 Crichton StreetCentral CampusEdinburghEH8 9LE

Programme:

Artificial Intelligence

School:

Informatics

College:

Science & Engineering

Proposed new programme We would like to hear your views on a potential new postgraduate opportunity in AI for Business. Take survey

Applying Select your programme and preferred start date to begin your application.MSc Artificial Intelligence - 1 Year (Full-time)Select your start date8 September 2025MSc Artificial Intelligence - 2 Years (Part-time)Select your start date8 September 2025MSc Artificial Intelligence - 3 Years (Part-time)Select your start date8 September 2025

Application deadlines

Programme start date Application deadline

8 September 2025 31 March 2025

Due to high demand on our programmes, the School of Informatics operates an application deadline of 31 March. We will make a small number of offers to the most outstanding candidates on an ongoing basis, but will hold the majority of applications until the advertised deadline. Decisions will be made as soon as possible once the deadline has passed. We expect to make the majority of decisions within eight weeks of the deadline. The deadline may be extended if there are any places remaining on the programme. Selection Deadlines

Application Deadline Expected Decision date

31 March 31 May

How to apply

You must submit one reference with your application. Find out more about the general application process for postgraduate programmes:

How to apply

Featured funding

Further information

Admissions Contact (lines open Mon-Fri 10am-4pm) Phone: +44 (0)131 650 5737 Contact: College of Science & Engineering Admissions Enquiries

Programme Contact Contact: futurestudents@ed.ac.uk

School of Informatics11 Crichton StreetCentral CampusEdinburghEH8 9LE

Programme:

Artificial Intelligence

School:

Informatics

College:

Science & Engineering

Privacy statement for applicants Terms and conditions of admission Admissions policies and procedures  

Help improve our services

Contact us

The University of Edinburgh

Terms & conditions

Privacy & cookies

Complaints procedure Modern slavery

Website accessibility

Freedom of information publication scheme Data Protection

MyEd login

The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, registered in Scotland, with registration number
                    SC005336, VAT Registration Number GB 592 9507 00, and is acknowledged by the UK authorities as a
                    “Recognised body” which has been
                    granted degree awarding powers.

Unless explicitly stated otherwise, all material is copyright © The University of Edinburgh 2024.